Revision2 (#15)
netsec-ethz/scion-quic-multipath_I-D: draft-zaeschke-scion-quic-multipath.md

some mismatches, for instance:

- **Endpoint Ambiguity**: PANs such as SCION use composite addresses

>   (e.g., ISD-AS + Host Address), where the host can be an IP address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (e.g., ISD-AS + IP), where the host can be an IP address
```
This sentence is specifically talking about IP.

## Addressing {#endpoint-identity}

> SCION uses composite addresses (ISD-AS + host address + port), where the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SCION uses composite addresses (ISD-AS + IP + port), where the
```
I would leave that as IP: the rest of the sentence refers to `IP`. Also, for consistency we would need to add ISD-AS *number* and port * number*.

### Recommendations

- To prevent attackers from circumventing QUIC path validation, a
  QUIC-MP implementation MUST make sure that QUIC path validation is
  triggered when the network address of the destination changes;

>   this includes host address, port and AS number. This protects against

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  this includes IP, port and ISD-AS identifier. This protects against
```

- Adapt the QUIC-MP library to be aware of the AS number in SCION
  network addresses.
- If the network address is available as a single "object",
  the SCION layer can extend this with the ISD-AS identifier and the
  QUIC-MP implementation must only ensure to compare the whole

>   object instead of port and host address separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  object instead of port and IP separately.
```

- The SCION implementation could detect cases where only the AS

>   changes and then mangle the port or host address to trigger a path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  changes and then mangle the port or IP to trigger a path
```

  validation in the QUIC-MP layer. This may be a pragmatic solution but
  is discouraged because:
  - Managing paths in the SCION layer is not trivial because it requires
    synchronizing the lifecycle of SCION paths and QUIC-MP paths, e.g.,
    knowing when a path is valid or when is it closed in QUIC-MP.
  - It creates opportunities for memory exhaustion attacks

>     (for storing the mapping of mangled host address/port).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    (for storing the mapping of mangled IP/port).
```

>     (for storing the mapping of mangled host address/port).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    (for storing the mapping of mangled IP/port).
```

>   - It reports a wrong host address/port to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - It reports a wrong IP/port to the application.
```

With NAT rebinding, as described in {{Section 5.2 of QUIC-MP}},
the path can change, but not without changing the SCION network

> address (host address, port, AS), so this case is not a concern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
address (IP, port, AS), so this case is not a concern.
```

  the SCION layer can extend this with the network path (possibly
  excluding the expiration date), and the
  QUIC-MP implementation must only ensure to compare the whole

>   object instead of port and host address separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  object instead of port and IP separately.
```

- The SCION implementation could detect cases where only the router
  interfaces

>   change and then mangle the port or host address to trigger a path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  change and then mangle the port or IP to trigger a path
```

  validation in the QUIC-MP layer. This may be a pragmatic solution but
  is discouraged, because:
  - Managing paths in the SCION layer is not trivial because it requires
    synchronizing the lifecycle of SCION paths and QUIC-MP paths, e.g.,
    knowing when a path is valid or when is it closed in QUIC-MP.
  - It creates opportunities for memory exhaustion attacks

>     (for storing the mapping of host address/port).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    (for storing the mapping of IP/port).
```

>   - It reports a wrong host address/port to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - It reports a wrong IP/port to the application.
```

A network path change goes unnoticed in case
a SCION implementation changes a path that happens to have the same

> host address/port for both endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IP/port for both endpoints.
```

Congestion control algorithms can also benefit from exact knowledge
of a path:

- When using multiple paths, a CC algorithm can access path metadata

>   as to whether and where the paths overlap and some of the properties
>   of the overlapping sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  as to determine whether and where the paths overlap and some of the
  properties of the overlapping sections.
```

## Path Selection {#patsel}

The path selection component is responsible for requesting paths

> to a destination, ordering the paths based on policy preferences,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a destination, ordering the paths based on policies and preferences,
```

### Recommendations

There are no known attacks. However, ASes should try to avoid

> forwarding faulty packets and endhosts SCION stacks should avoid
> exporting faulty packets to the QUIC layer or application layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
forwarding faulty packets to neighbor ASes and endhosts SCION stacks
should avoid forwarding faulty packets to the QUIC layer or application layer.
```

## Recommendations for QUIC-MP Implementations

- To prevent attackers circumventing path validation, a QUIC-MP
  implementation MUST ensure to trigger path validation when the network
  address of the destination changes; this includes host address, port
  and AS number. This protects against several attacks, see
  {{attack-path-injection}} and especially {{attack-amplification}}.

  There are several ways to achieve this, for example:

  - Adapt the QUIC-MP library to be aware of the AS number in SCION
    network addresses.
  - If the network address is available as a single "object",
    the SCION layer can extend this with the ISD-AS identifier, and the
    QUIC-MP implementation must only ensure to compare the whole

>     object instead of port and host address separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    object instead of port and IP separately.
```

  - The SCION implementation could detect cases where only the AS
    changes and then mangle the port or host address to trigger a path
    validation in the QUIC-MP layer. This may be a pragmatic solution
    but is discouraged, because:
    - Managing paths in the SCION layer is not trivial because it
      requires synchronizing the lifecycle of SCION paths and QUIC-MP
      paths, e.g., knowing when a path is valid or when is it closed in
      QUIC-MP.
    - It creates opportunities for memory exhaustion attacks

>       (for storing the mapping of mangled host address/port).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      (for storing the mapping of mangled IP/port).
```

>     - It reports a wrong host address/port to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It reports a wrong IP/port to the application.
```

  or abandoned.
  Sometimes, storing paths is inevitable, see {{sig}}.
  For security concerns, see also {{attack-path-injection}}.
- If a SCION implementation stores paths internally, it MUST NOT use

>   host address/port as key to look up paths. Host address/port are not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  IP/port as key to look up paths. IP/port are not
```

## IP Ambiguity {#attack-ip-ambiguity}

In SCION, ASes are free to use IP addresses from RFC1918 "Private-Use"
IP ranges.  Therefore, IP addresses do not uniquely identify a peer
endpoint.

> To attack a client with host address X, an attacker could set up an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To attack a client with IP address X, an attacker could set up an
```

> endpoint with identical host X in a different AS. The attacker can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endpoint with identical IP X in a different AS. The attacker can
```

then contact a server endpoint that is also used by the client victim.

> If the server endpoint stores paths internally with host addresses as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the server endpoint stores paths internally with IP addresses as
```

  establishing a connection.

The second case is more difficult to achieve. Often, connections may

> be stored by host address+port, so the attacker must guess the victim's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be stored by IP+port, so the attacker must guess the victim's
```

port when launching the attack, this is difficult with ephemeral ports.

### Mitigation

- A SCION implementation should avoid storing paths while using

>   the host address as key to look up paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the IP address as key to look up paths.
```

  For QUIC-MP, the QUIC Path ID should be used as key.

> - SCION libraries could use host address/port mangling when they detect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SCION libraries could use IP/port mangling when they detect
```

>   multiple paths with the same host address/port. However, this may have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  multiple paths with the same IP/port. However, this may have
```

  unintended consequences in the application layer.
- Higher level libraries, such as QUIC(-MP) should be careful to not

>   rely only on host addresses to trigger path validation or resetting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  rely only on IP/port to trigger path validation or resetting
```

recommend the following where possible:

1. SCION layers should avoid storing/caching paths and network addresses

>    (beyond host address/port) internally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   (beyond IP/port) internally.
```

   Instead, they should be given to the QUIC(-MP) layer or the
   application layer. That means that path information would only be
   accepted and retained if the QUIC(-MP) or application layer decides
   to do so.
3. SCION layers and QUIC(-MP) layers should interface by using
   network addresses that include all information that identifies an
   endpoint, including, for example, ISD-AS identifier. Any change in a

>    network address (including the ISD-AS ID) should trigger path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   network address (including ISD-AS) should trigger path
```

### Traffic Redirection to Different AS

An attacker may craft a packet that appears to originate from the same
host address/port, but is located in a different AS than an existing
connection.  If the server's SCION layer stores paths internally, and
uses host address/port as key to look them up, then the new paths may
replace the existing one, and outgoing traffic is redirected to the new
paths and destination.

Mitigation:

- The QUIC(-MP) layer MUST trigger path validation if the
  network address changes, and must consider every attribute of the

>   address, not just host address and port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  address, not just IP and port.
```

or be used for traffic analysis.

The attacker injects the crafted path into the server, with the

> intention that the non-unique host address causes an existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intention that the non-unique IP/portt causes an existing
```

  1) SCION implementations SHOULD NOT store or cache paths,
     especially not on the server side.

>   2) SCION endhost implementations MUST NOT use host address/port as key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2) SCION endhost implementations MUST NOT use IP/port as key
```

### Traffic Amplification {#attack-amplification}

An attacker may establish a connection with a server,
request a large amount of data, and then inject a path that redirects to

> a victim that has the same host address/port, but in a different AS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a victim that has the same IP/port, but in a different AS.
```

If the server-side QUIC-MP does not trigger path validation

> (because host address/port are the same), then it may implicitly accept

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(because IP/port are the same), then it may implicitly accept
```
